okay you're falling off a cliff
you somehow didn't know about her
boyfriend dang you're in a tight spot
time to break the way down into several
parts
try grabbing anything you see as you
plummet shrubs trees or rocks this way
you divide a long fall
into several short ones with each new
fall the impact will decrease
if enough of the impact is absorbed it
means you've got a better chance of
survival
and another chance at love but not with
her
same for if you drop out a window try to
cling to anything on your way
it probably won't hold you but at least
you'll have several falling intervals to
help decrease your speed
a canopy to stop you can be a real life
saver no matter if it's plastic or
glass it'll hurt either way but you'll
survive
maybe you also need to bend your knees a
little
if bent your legs will touch the ground
simultaneously
and the consequences will be less severe
another tip is that whenever you land
try to do so on the tips of your toes
and never on straight and locked legs
don't forget to cover your head with
your arms they will help protect your
noggin
no matter if you land on concrete or in
a puddle of mud
now quicksand is not as dangerous as
shown in movies
if you get stuck in quicksand dang
you're in a tight spot
first off stay calm then you're not
likely to sink more than
up to your waist toss away anything that
makes you heavier
shoes bags even clothing wiggle your
legs to create room for water
it'll help you get away your arms should
always be up
try floating but not on your stomach
move backward with small steps
big steps are harder to take so it'll
take longer to get out
when you reach solid surface roll out of
that quicksand
surviving a wild animal attack may be
challenging
but a crowd of people is not any less
dangerous
the crowd may move like a fluid not
letting you escape
if you're trapped between hundreds of
people dang you're in a tight
spot rule number one is not to stop
stopping is the fastest way to fall if
you actually do fall
make an air pocket your arms should be
placed above your face and chest
embracing them if you manage to stay
upright
as soon as you feel the surge coming
move with it and
sideways at the same time if you're lost
in the wilderness and
need to go fishing you can use a can tab
shape it in the form of a hook cut it at
a slant and trim off the metal to make
it look like an
actual hook the main thing is to create
a sharp point
a can can also become a makeshift cooker
take a can and cut out a hole from the
side put some kindling
inside and set it on fire you can fry an
egg on top of it
dental floss can be super handy for
surviving in the wilderness
first use it as a fishing line together
with a can
tab hook it can also serve as a
clothesline stretch between two trees
it's thin yet a single strand can hold
up to five
pounds you can make a spear by binding a
long stick
and a knife together with dental floss
it's also quite flammable
so if you don't have any kindling to set
larger pieces of wood on fire
try burning it dental floss can also be
great makeshift shoelaces
a simple plastic bottle can make a very
strong rope
if you have a good knife first you need
to find a small stump
it should have a diameter about the same
as your bottle
make a slit across the middle of the
stump then
cut a notch out of the stump large
enough for your knife blade to fit
inside
cut off the bottleneck and make a small
notch on its edge
its width depends on the rope width you
want
place the edge of the bottle inside the
center slit and put the knife in the
notch in the stump
with the blade towards the slit start
slowly dragging the bottle through the
slit
you'll see the bottle spin as it spins
the blade will cut out the rope
you can use it to build a hut because it
can secure logs really well
now a human can go several days without
food
but there's no way we can survive
without water
water in the wild can be delicious
sometimes but if you feel like it's not
safe to drink you may need a makeshift
water filter
start with a fire boiling water may not
be enough
so as soon as the fire ashes are cold
grind them to a powdery consistency
don't use charcoal you randomly found in
the forest
you never know what's in there then you
need a plastic bottle
cut off the bottom and make a hole in
the cap turn it upside down
put in some charcoal three inches are
enough and pour the water
over it the dripping water is ready to
drink
to catch any excess charcoal wrap the
cap with a piece of clean cloth for
extra filtration okay here you're
getting hungry
and you probably need to start a fire
dang you just don't have any matches or
a lighter
empty your pockets to see if you can
make a makeshift fire starter
if you have a battery probably the one
from your flashlight
and a gum wrapper that's enough you need
to cut
a thin strip of the foil wrapper yet
long enough to connect the two ends of
the battery
the middle of the strip should be
slimmer than the ends
get closer to the pile of dry grass
small logs
or even some paper whatever you're going
to use to start your fire
the foil strip will ignite in seconds
setting the kindling on fire
mosquitoes are a real pain and there are
loads of them in the woods
you can make your own diy repellent to
keep those bad guys away
all you need is an orange a lemon or any
other citrus fruit that's full of
essential oils
peel an orange and rub the peel directly
on your skin
crumpling it a bit beforehand to make
those precious essential oils come out
one more useful way of keeping
mosquitoes at bay
is to add a few orange peels to your
tinder while burning
the essential oils will release and
frighten those pesky guys away
if you want to send a signal that you're
lost and it's an emergency
cover three small fires with any green
vegetation
like grass and then cover it again with
some wet fabric
you'll have big white smoke puffs three
puffs in a row means
emergency adding some oil to your fire
will turn the smoke black
if you don't have oil use birch bark
instead
remember the higher you start the fire
the better
so climb to a visible area
if someone has your hands tied together
dang you're in a tight spot
the first thing to do is move your
wrists to loosen that tie
ropes can usually be cut through with
friction against hard and sharp objects
if you're tied up with a zip tie try to
break it
clench your fists press the knuckles
together raise your hands above your
head
and then bring them down sharply the
pressure will snap the tie
you may also try to slip out of the zip
tied knot
first clench your fists the wrists will
go larger like this
widening the bonds when you relax your
hands
the bonds loosen so you may slip out
duct tape can be chewed through or if
you moisten it
it will turn softer and easy to loosen
you can even moisten it with your saliva
crossing a water current may be more
dangerous than it seems
when crossing choose a straight and wide
section
before stepping into the water check if
the current's not too fast
throw a stick in it and if it moves
faster than your average walking pace
consider crossing at a different
location or
you could just look around for a boat
that's nearby
no need to be silly about it